I’d like to invite you to take your booklet
Examining the Scriptures
and focus on the second to the last
sentence in our comment.
There’s quite a lot in there.
So that’s our November 8 comment,
the second to the last sentence.
It says: “Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham,
“and others like them
believed in the resurrection of the dead
“and looked forward to life
on earth under God’s Kingdom,
‘the city having real foundations.’”
Well, there’s a lot there.
Let’s take it apart
and see how we can confirm
each one of those statements that’s made.
What about the first statement?
“Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham,
and others like them
believed in the resurrection of the dead.”
Now, that’s a pretty strong statement.
We don’t see a clear teaching
of the resurrection in the book of Genesis.
But just because Genesis doesn’t mention it
doesn’t mean that these faithful men of old
didn’t know about the resurrection.
The apostle Paul tells us that they
were all looking forward to a reward
—a reward that they would receive,
not in their lifetime, but in the future.
And that would require a resurrection.
Now, the comment mentions Enoch.
What do we know about him?
Turn to Hebrews chapter 11,
and leave your Bibles open there, please,
because we’re going to be reading
several verses in Hebrews.
Hebrews 11,
Hebrews 11:5,
it says: “By faith
“Enoch was transferred
so as not to see death,
“and he was nowhere to be found
because God had transferred him;
“for before he was transferred
“[that is, just before he died]
he received the witness
that he had pleased God well.”
So at the end of his life,
he is told that he has pleased God well.
And then what?
No reward?
That doesn’t make sense.
Now, the clergy of Christendom
don’t believe that Enoch
needed a resurrection
because they don’t believe he died.
They focused on Paul’s words
that Enoch was transferred
and he did not see death.
But the fact is that Enoch did die.
How do we know?
Paul says so.
Look at verse 5;
we’re talking about Enoch.
Look at verse 7;
he’s talking about Noah.
Verse 8: Abraham.
Verse 11: Sarah.
Now, look at verse 13:
“In faith all [all ] of these died.”
Well, that would include Enoch, wouldn’t it?
So Enoch did die.
Well, when it says “he was transferred,”
does it mean that he went
to heaven after he died?
Well, when was he baptized?
He couldn’t get to heaven
if he wasn’t baptized.
When was Abraham baptized?
Noah?
Moses?
Jesus said:
‘Unless anyone is born of water and spirit,
he cannot enter the Kingdom of heaven.’
Well, come to think of it, none of these
faithful men of old were baptized.
None of them were born of water and spirit,
so none of them could get to heaven.
So that confirms
the second part of our comment,
where it says that they
“looked forward to life on earth
under God’s Kingdom,”
because they were not born again.
So they would have life on earth.
So we have covered, really,
the first two parts of our comment:
the fact that these men
did believe in the resurrection
and that they were going
to be resurrected to life on earth.
But, wait a minute, how do we know
that they believed in a resurrection?
Let’s look at verse 13 again,
and this time we’re going
to emphasize a little different word.
Verse 13:
“In faith
[in faith] all of these died.”
Now, what’s Paul’s definition of “faith”?
In the same chapter,
he says that the one who has faith
‘believes that God is the rewarder
of those who are earnestly seeking him.’
So when Paul says
that ‘all of these men died in faith,’
he means that when they died,
they were looking forward to a reward
—that God was going to become their rewarder.
Well, in order for that to take place,
they would have
to have a resurrection, wouldn’t they?
What about Abraham?
He believed in the resurrection,
although he never saw one.
Paul mentions that in verses 17-19.
Paul says: “By faith Abraham,
“when he was tested,
as good as offered up Isaac
“—the man who had gladly
received the promises attempted
“to offer up his only-begotten son
—although it had been said to him:
“‘What will be called your offspring
will be through Isaac.’
“But he reasoned [he reasoned]
“that God was able to raise
him up even from the dead
“[he reasoned that God was able
to raise him up even from the dead],
and he did receive him
from there in an illustrative way.”
But how do we know
that Abraham believed in the resurrection?
On what basis
can Paul say that Abraham ‘reasoned
that God was able to resurrect Isaac’?
What would you say?
The key is in verse 18.
God said to Abraham:
“What will be called your offspring
will be through Isaac.”
In other words, Abraham’s descendants
were going to come through Isaac,
and at the time that Abraham
attempted to offer Isaac,
Isaac didn’t have any offspring.
God’s Word had to come true.
When God said that “your offspring
will be through Isaac,” it had to come true.
And so if God allowed Abraham
to go through with the sacrifice,
he would have to resurrect Isaac
because ‘God cannot lie.’
Now, there’s a third part of our comment
that we were looking at,
and it says that God’s Kingdom
is “the city having real foundations.”
But since when is a city a kingdom?
Why do we draw that conclusion?
Well, when you come to think of it,
even today there
are independent nations or kingdoms
that are cities:
Monaco, Singapore,
Gibraltar, Vatican City.
But go further in Bible times;
a lot of cities were kingdoms.
We read about the king of Salem,
the king of Sodom, the king of Gomorrah.
These were cities, but the cities had kings.
So Paul’s listeners or readers
would have understood
(when he said they were
“awaiting the city having real foundations”)
that this was a kingdom.
Now, Paul makes another
powerful point in verse 35,
when we talk about whether
these faithful men of old
knew about the resurrection or not.
In verse 35, he says:
“Women received their dead by resurrection,
“but other men were tortured
“because they would not accept
release by some ransom,
in order that they might
attain a better resurrection.”
That makes sense, doesn’t it?
Why would anybody
accept to be tortured to death
if he didn’t believe in a better life?
So these men accepted
to be persecuted and tortured
because they knew that something else
—something better—was coming,
and that would require a resurrection.
So we can heartily agree
with all of the points that are made
in this second to the last
sentence of our comment today:
“Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham
and others like them
“believed in the resurrection of the dead
“and looked forward to life
on earth under God’s Kingdom,
‘the city having real foundations.’”